








                         README for SWFPut
             A Flash Video Player Plugin for WordPress


                    Ed Hynan <edhynan@gmail.com>



    1.  What is it?

         SWFPut  is  a  plugin for the popular WordPress content
    management and weblog software. It provides a  video  player
    program  for  the flash plugin and the means to configure an
    instance with a video source and playback attributes.  There
    are two separate components: the flash video player, and the
    WP plugin proper.  The video player  is  delivered  to  site
    visitors by the plugin in the traditional <object ...> block
    with the necessary arguments. Flash  video  objects  may  be
    placed  in posts and pages, or in the widget areas supported
    by your theme (i.e., the plugin includes a  widget).   Video
    is placed in posts and pages with a shortcode; if you do not
    know what a shortcode is, or do not want to deal with  them,
    that's  no  problem.   (In  fact,  it is preferable that the
    shortcodes not be hand-edited, and they  will  not  be  dis-
    cussed  in  detail here.) The plugin adds to the administra-
    tive interface a full featured form to  setup  and  add,  or
    edit,  or delete video objects, so the user does not need to
    be troubled with shortcodes (they will  be  visible  in  the
    editor;  you will get used to them).  The flash video widget
    has a similar full featured form.

         The plugin does not add any  JavaScript  to  the  pages
    generated  for  your visitors, which might be helpful if you
    try keep your pages useful to those who  disable  JavaScript
    in  their  browser.  (Such visitors might need to explicitly
    enable the flash plugin, but that is  another,  unavoidable,
    issue.)   JavaScript is used in the administrative interface
    for the forms and manipulation of shortcodes in the  editor;
    but  of course you must have JavaScript enabled when you log
    in to your site--this does not affect your visitors.

         (Note that the flash video player  has  been  coded  to
    work well with the free Gnash flash plugin. As of this writ-
    ing, Gnash does not handle *.mp4 files well, even though  it
    handles h.264 video and AAC audio if they are in an FLV con-
    tainer file.)

    2.  Building From the Source

         SWFPut is distributed as a  ZIP  archive  prepared  for
    installation  on  a  WordPress  site with the "Add New" item









                                 -2-


    under the "Plugins" menu.  Therefore, there is  no  need  to
    build the package before use.

         (You may skip forward to the Usage section if you don't
    intend to modify the player or plugin.)

         The  actual  plugin  is  composed  of  PHP  code,   and
    JavaScript  for  the  administrative  parts,  and neither of
    those requires compilation or link editing.  The flash video
    player  is  a compiled program, but binaries are included in
    the installable package so that use does not require  compi-
    lation  by  the user. Of course, the source code is included
    and the binaries may be built  if  necessary  (or  desired).
    Compiling the flash program will require the Ming PHP exten-
    sion. See  the  files  Makefile,  mingtest/mingput.php,  and
    mingtest/mainact.inc.php  if  you wish to learn to build the
    player.

         If you wish to change the JavaScript code, edit js/for-
    mxed.dev.js,  rather  than  js/formxed.js.   The  latter  is
    merely a `minified' version of the former; see Makefile.

         This file (README*) is built with groff; see docs/Make-
    file.

         The  Makefiles require a Unix-like or POSIX system. The
    default target builds as necessary and then creates the  ZIP
    file.

    3.  Usage

         A logged in session is assumed.

         SWFPut  installed will add an item under the "Settings"
    menu named "SWFPut Plugin". Selecting  that  should  produce
    the  plugin's  configuration  page.   The configuration page
    includes optional verbose  help,  and  so  it  will  not  be
    described here.

         When editing posts or pages, below the editor the plug-
    in will have placed an interactive form with the title "SWF-
    Put  Flash  Video Shortcode".  Directly under the title is a
    row of buttons.  Under the row of buttons, the bulk  of  the
    form  is  placed in three sections entitled "Media", "Dimen-
    sions", and "Behavior".  The title bar of each section has a
    button that will hide or show that section, which might help
    if the height of the form is greater than that the display.


         3.1.  Form Buttons


         o    Fill form from editor: When  the  post  (or  page)
              already  contains  a  SWFPut  flash  video  object









                                 -3-


              (i.e., shortcode), this will find it in the editor
              and  fill  the  form with its details.  A post may
              contain any number of  SWFPut  video  objects.  If
              there is more than one, then repeatedly using this
              button will cycle through each in turn.

         o    Replace current in editor: When the form has  been
              filled  with  the  details of a video object using
              "Fill form from editor" (described above),  or  if
              it contains the details of a new video object that
              has  just  been  added,  the  form  items  may  be
              changed,  and this button will edit the associated
              shortcode (video object) with the changes.

         o    Delete current in editor: As described  above  for
              "Replace  current  in  editor", except that rather
              than changing the details of the shortcode, it  is
              deleted.

         o    Place  new  in  editor: After making sure that the
              cursor (insertion point) in the editor is  at  the
              desired  position, and setting the form items, use
              this button to add a new shortcode (video).

         o    Reset default values:  Except  for  the  "Caption"
              text field, all form items are set to default val-
              ues, or cleared. It is  assumed  that  text  typed
              into  the  "Caption"  field  would be better main-
              tained by hand, so that field is not cleared.


         3.2.  Form Sections

              3.2.1.  Media

              o    Caption: A video object is set in a  page  as
                   an  image would be, with the same border, and
                   an optional caption, which may be  set  here.
                   If this field is left blank, there will be no
                   caption.

              o    Url or media library ID:  A  fully  qualified
                   URL may be given here, or an ID valid for the
                   WorpPress database.   Or  more  conveniently,
                   this  field may be set from the two drop-down
                   lists described next.   Acceptable  protocols
                   are  HTTP, HTTPS, and RTMP.  Support for RTMP
                   is only partial and very limited. See  "Play-
                   path  (rtmp)"  below. Acceptable file (media)
                   types are FLV, MP4 (video), and MP3  (audio).
                   Note  that  it is the file type that matters,
                   not the file name suffix.











                                 -4-


              o    Url from uploads directory: This is  a  drop-
                   down  list  from  which  the  "Url  or  media
                   library ID" field may be set.  The  WorpPress
                   uploads directory is searched recursively for
                   files with the suffixes FLV,  MP4,  and  MP3,
                   and  for  each  a URL is placed in this list.
                   This has the  advantage  that  it  will  find
                   files  added  by  hand  (rather than with the
                   `add media' interface) if they are placed  in
                   uploads or a directory under it.

              o    Select ID from media library: This is a drop-
                   down  list  from  which  the  "Url  or  media
                   library  ID" field may be set, as above, with
                   the difference that it searches the WorpPress
                   media  database,  and  presents  the suitable
                   filenames their media IDs.

              o    Playpath (rtmp): If the "Url or media library
                   ID"  is  given an RTMP URL, the `playpath' is
                   given here. Note that only the simplest  RTMP
                   connections  are  supported:  those requiring
                   only the playpath.

              o    Url of initial image file (optional):

              o    Load image from uploads directory:

              o    Load image ID from media library:

              o    Medium is audio:

              3.2.2.  Dimensions

              o    :

              3.2.3.  Behavior

              o    :

    4.  License

         This program and all files included in the distribution
    archive  are  under  the  GNU  GPL, version 3.  See the file
    COPYING, which should be present in the top-level  directory
    of the distribution archive.














